.\" Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" Include www macros (see groff_www(7))
.mso www.tmac
.
.TH TMDA-CHECK-ADDRESS 1 "2009-03-26" TMDA "TMDA Programs"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH NAME
tmda-check-address \- validate a tagged e-mail address
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tmda-check-address
.RI [ options ]\  address \ [ sender ]
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tmda-check-address
checks a tagged (dated, keyword, or sender style only) e-mail address.
The required
.RI ` address '
argument is the address you want to check.
The optional
.RI ` sender '
is the sender address to verify if checking a sender-style address.
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -c\  file ,\ --config-file= file
Specify a configuration file other than
.IR ~/.tmda/config .
.TP
.B -l, --localtime
Display dates in the local time zone instead of UTC.
.TP
.B -V
Show full TMDA version information and exit.
.TP
.B --version
Show program's version number and exit.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show this help message and exit.
.\" **********************************************************************
.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH AUTHOR
TMDA was written by
.MTO jason@mastaler.com "Jason R. Mastaler" .
.PP
This manual page was adapted from the program
.B --help
output by
.MTO kevin-opensource@omegacrash.net "Kevin Goodsell" ,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
