.\" Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH TMDA-FILTER 1 "2010-01-24" TMDA "TMDA Programs"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH NAME
tmda\-filter \- filter incoming message
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY tmda\-filter
.RI [ options ]
.YS
.SY tmda\-rfilter
.RI [ options ]
.YS
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B \%tmda\-rfilter
filters an incoming message on standard input.
.B \%tmda\-filter
is a wrapper for
.B \%tmda\-rfilter
that catches and logs errors, and defers delivery in the event of an
abnormal exit.
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-c " file
.TQ
.BI \-\-config\-file= file
Specify a configuration file other than
.BR \(ti/.tmda/config .
.TP
.BI "\-t " dir
.TQ
.BI \-\-template\-dir= dir
Full pathname to a directory containing custom TMDA templates.
.TP
.BI "\-I " file
.TQ
.BI \-\-filter\-incoming\-file= file
Full pathname to your incoming filter file.
Overrides FILTER_INCOMING in
.BR \(ti/.tmda/config .
.TP
.BI "\-e " var = val
.TQ
.BI \-\-environ= var = val
Add an environment variable on the command line.
.I var
is the name of the variable, and
.IR val ,
separated by an `=', is its value.
There should be no whitespace before or after the `='.
.TP
.B \-d
.TQ
.B \-\-discard
Discard message if address is invalid instead of bouncing it.
.TP
.B \-p
.TQ
.B \-\-print
Print the message to stdout.
This option is useful when TMDA is run as a filter in maildrop or procmail.
It overrides all other delivery options, even if a specific delivery is
given in a matching rule.
If the message is delivered, TMDA's exit code is 0.
If the message is dropped, bounced or a confirmation request is sent, the
exit code will be 99.
You can use the exit code in maildrop/procmail to decide if you want to
perform further processing.
.TP
.BI "\-S " script
.TQ
.BI \-\-vhome\-script= script
Full pathname of
.I script
that prints a virtual email user's home directory on standard output.
.B \%tmda\-filter
will read that path and set $HOME to that path so that `\(ti' expansion
works properly for virtual users.
The script takes two arguments, the user name and the domain, on its
command line.
This option is for use only with the VPopMail and VMailMgr add-ons to
qmail.
See the
.B contrib/
directory for sample scripts.
.TP
.BI \-M " recip sender"
.TQ
.BI \-\-filter\-match= "recip sender"
Check whether the given e-mail addresses matches a line in your incoming
filter and then exit.
The first address given should be the message recipient (you), and the
second is the sender.
This option will also check for parsing errors in the filter file.
.TP
.B \-V
Show full TMDA version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show program's version number and exit.
.TP
.B \-h
.TQ
.B \-\-help
Show this help message and exit.
.\" **********************************************************************
.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH AUTHOR
TMDA was written by
.MT jason@mastaler.com
Jason R. Mastaler
.ME .
.PP
This manual page was adapted from the program
.B \%\-\-help
output by
.MT kevin\-opensource@omegacrash.net
Kevin Goodsell
.ME ,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
