.\" Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH TMDA-ADDRESS 1 "2010-01-24" TMDA "TMDA Programs"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH NAME
tmda\-address \- generate a tagged e-mail address
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY tmda\-address
.RI [ options ]
.YS
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tmda\-address
generates a tagged e-mail address and prints it to stdout.
If no options are specified, a dated-style address is generated.
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-c " file
.TQ
.BI \-\-config\-file= file
Specify a configuration file other than
.BR \(ti/.tmda/config .
.TP
.B \-n
.TQ
.B \-\-no\-newline
Do not print a newline after the address.
This is often useful when calling
.B \%tmda\-address
from another program.
.TP
.BI "\-a " address
.TQ
.BI \-\-address= address
Use this address as the basis for the tagged address, otherwise your
default email address will be used.
.TP
.BI "\-k " keyword
.TQ
.BI \-\-keyword= keyword
Generate a keyword-style tagged address based on
.IR keyword .
.TP
.BI "\-s " address
.TQ
.BI \-\-sender= address
Generate a sender-style tagged address.
.I address
can either be an email address or a domain name.
.TP
.B \-d
.TQ
.B \-\-dated
Generate a dated-style tagged address using your default timeout value
which comes from the
.B DATED_TIMEOUT
variable in your configuration (5 days by default).
You can specify a different timeout using the
.BR \-t / \-\-timeout
option below.
.TP
.BI "\-t " timeout
.TQ
.BI \-\-timeout= timeout
Generate a dated-style tagged address using the timeout value
.IR timeout ,
which is a number followed by a unit of time -- seconds (s), minutes (m),
hours (h), days (d), weeks (w), months (M), or years (Y).
E.g,
.B 5d
for a 5 day timeout, and
.B 24h
for 24 hours.
This option assumes
.BR \-d / \-\-dated .
.TP
.B \-V
Show full TMDA version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show program's version number and exit.
.TP
.B \-h
.TQ
.B \-\-help
Show this help message and exit.
.\" **********************************************************************
.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH AUTHOR
TMDA was written by
.MT jason@mastaler.com
Jason R. Mastaler
.ME .
.PP
This manual page was adapted from the program
.B \%\-\-help
output by
.MT kevin\-opensource@omegacrash.net
Kevin Goodsell
.ME ,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
