.\" t
.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH TMDA-FILTER-FORMAT 5 "2010-01-30" TMDA "TMDA Documentation"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH NAME
tmda\-filter\-format \- Format for TMDA message filters
.
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
TMDA filter files contain filters to apply to incoming or outgoing
mail messages.
A filter must begin in the first column of a line, and may span multiple
lines.
To continue a filter onto a new line, indent lines after the first at
least one space or tab.
Blank lines (empty or whitespace-only) may not appear between lines of a
filter.
.PP
Filter files may be annotated with comments.
A comment begins with a hash character (#) and continues to the end of the
line.
.PP
The general form of a filter is
.PP
.I source match action
.PP
The available sources and actions are described in detail in the
.B SOURCES
and
.B ACTIONS
sections below.
The interpretation of
.I match
for each source is also described in the
.B SOURCES
section.
.PP
Additionally, filter files support a few special constructs: macros,
included files, and variable interpolation.
.
.SS Macros
.
Macros perform simple text replacement.
Given a macro definition of the form:
.IP
.EX
.BI macro " name replacement\-text"
.EE
.PP
Every subsequent reference to
.I name
will be replaced with
.IR replacement\-text .
.PP
Macros may also take arguments.
For example:
.IP
.EX
macro WHITELIST(filename) from\-file \(ti/.tmda/lists/filename ok
.EE
.PP
Will cause
.IP
.EX
WHITELIST(friends)
.EE
.PP
to be replaced with
.IP
.EX
from\-file \(ti/.tmda/lists/friends ok
.EE
.
.SS Included Files
.
The
.B include
directive can be used to insert the content of one filter file into
another.
The syntax is:
.IP
.EX
.BR include " [" \-optional "] \fIincluded\-file\-path"
.EE
.PP
This works as if the content of the included file were inserted into the
filter file at the point where the
.B include
directive appears.
.PP
With
.B \-optional
no error is raised when the file does not exist.
.
.SS Variable Interpolation
.
Variable interpolation allows variables to be expanded in filter files.
Variables are prefixed with $ and enclosed in curly braces, e.g.
.BR ${VARIABLE_NAME} .
Variables are search for in two locations.
First, the user configuration is searched.
This includes all standard configuration variables (see
.BR tmda\-config (5))
as well as any extra variables set in the user's configuration file.
Second, environment variables are searched.
If a variable is not found in either location, an error is generated and
the message is deferred.
.
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH SOURCES
.
The
.I source
for a filter determines what aspect of the message the filter is based on
and the interpretation of the
.I match
portion of the filter.
Possible sources are shown here along with their possible options and the
.I match
type that they expect.
.
.TP
.BI "from " address
.TQ
.BI "to " address
The filter matches the given
.IR address .
.IP
For all
.B to
and
.B from
filter types, the addresses matched are different for incomming and
outgoing filters:
.\" This table produces adjusting warnings because of the long,
.\" non-breakable words. As a work-around, disable adjusting just
.\" until the end of the table, and allow plenty of opportunity to
.\" break long words.
.na
.TS
allbox, tab(;);
l l l
lB l l.
;Incoming Filter;Outgoing Filter
from*;T{
Envelope sender or one of the headers
.BR From ,
.BR Reply-To ,
or
.B X-Primary-Address
(depending on the
.B PRI\%MARY_AD\%DRESS_MATCH
setting)
T};From header
to*;Envelope recipient;T{
Recipient on
.BR tmda-sendmail 's
command line or the
.B To
header
T}
.TE
.ad
.IP
Wildcard matching is also allowed in
.B from
and
.BR to ,
.B \%from\-file
and
.B \%to\-file
(when used without
.B \%\-autocdb
or
.BR \%\-autodbm ),
and
.B \%from\-sql
and
.B \%to\-sql
(when used with
.BR \%\-wildcards ).
.IP
The accepted wildcards are:
.TS
allbox, tab(;);
lB lB
lB l.
Wildcard;Matches
*;anything
?;any single character
[\fIchars\fP];a single character from \fIchars
[!\fIchars\fP];a single character that is not in \fIchars
@=;\fB@\fP or \fB@*.\fP, for matching optional subdomains
.TE
.
.TP
.BR from\-file " [" \-autocdb | \-autodbm "] [" \-optional "] \fIfile"
.TQ
.BR to\-file " [" \-autocdb | \-autodbm "] [" \-optional "] \fIfile"
Like
.B from
and
.BR to ,
but using addresses or domains from the indicated file rather than a
single address.
The
.B \%\-autocdb
and
.B \%\-autodbm
flags can be used to automatically build a database from
.IR file ,
allowing faster lookups.
If the
.B \%\-optional
flag is given, then the file not existing is not an error.
.IP
.I file
is a simple text file containing one address or domain (possibly with
wildcards) per line.
Each address or domain may optionally be followed by an
.IR action ,
which overrides the
.I action
in the filter file.
The file may also include blank or whitespace-only lines, and comments
which begin with # and continue to the end of the line.
.
.TP
.BR from\-cdb " [" \-optional "] \fIdatabase"
.TQ
.BR to\-cdb " [" \-optional "] \fIdatabase"
.TQ
.BR from\-dbm " [" \-optional "] \fIdatabase"
.TQ
.BR to\-dbm " [" \-optional "] \fIdatabase"
Like
.B from-file
and
.BR to-file ,
but using addresses and domains from the given database rather than from
a file.
.B \%\-optional
has the same meaning as in
.B \%from\-file
and
.BR \%to\-file .
.IP
The
.I database
should contain addresses or domain names for the keys, and the values may
be empty or may contain an
.I action
which overrides the
.I action
given in the filter file.
.
.TP
.BR from\-ezmlm " [" \-optional "] \fIezmlm\-directory"
.TQ
.BR to\-ezmlm " [" \-optional "] \fIezmlm\-directory"
.TQ
.BR "from\-mailman \-attr=\fIattribute\fP " [ \-optional "] \
\fImailman\-directory"
.TQ
.BR "to\-mailman \-attr=\fIattribute\fP " [ \-optional "] \
\fImailman\-directory"
Like
.B from
and
.BR to ,
but using addresses from an ezmlm mailing list subscriber list or a
mailman configuration database.
.IP
.I ezmlm\-directory
must be the ezmlm mailing list directory, which is expected to contain a
.B \%subscribers
directory.
It must not refer to the
.B \%subscribers
directory itself.
.IP
The mailman variants require an
.IR attribute ,
which specifies an attribute in the configuration database.
Possible attributes include
.BR \%members ,
.BR \%digest_members ,
and
.BR \%owner .
.IP
.B \%\-optional
has the same meaning as in
.B \%from\-file
and
.BR \%to\-file .
.
.TP
.BI "from\-sql \-wildcards\fR|\fP\-addr_column=" column\-name " \fR[\fP\
\-action_column=" "column\-name\fR]\fP SQL\-query"
.TQ
.BI "to\-sql \-wildcards\fR|\fP\-addr_column=" column\-name " \fR[\fP\
\-action_column=" "column\-name\fR]\fP SQL\-query"
These sources use a SQL database query to look up addresses.
.IP
These sources require the
.B \%DB_CONNECTION
variable to be set in your TMDA configuration.
.IP
Sorry, this section is not yet complete.
.
.TP
.BR body " [" \-case "] \fIregular\-expression"
.TQ
.BR headers " [" \-case "] \fIregular\-expression"
.TQ
.BR body\-file " [" \-case "] [" \-optional "] \
\fIregular\-expression\-file"
.TQ
.BR headers\-file " [" \-case "] [" \-optional "] \
\fIregular\-expression\-file"
For incomming filters only.
.IP
Uses a regular expression (or a file containing regular expressions) to
match against either the message body or headers.
.B \%\-optional
has the same meaning as in
.B \%from\-file
and
.BR \%to\-file .
.B \%\-case
indicates that matching should be case-sensitive.
.IP
Regular expression files should contain one expression per line.
If a regular expression contains whitespace, it must be quoted.
Single quotes (') and double quotes (") are allowed.
The file may also include blank or whitespace-only lines, and comments
which begin with # and continue to the end of the line.
.IP
The regular expression format is that used by Python's
.B re
module.
Documentation may be found by using the command:
.IP
.EX
pydoc re
.EE
.IP
Or on the
.UR http://docs.python.org/library/re.html
Python web site
.UE .
.
.TP
.BI "size <" bytes
.TQ
.BI "size >" bytes
For incomming filters only.
.IP
Matches messages based on their size.
No space is permitted between the operator and
.IR bytes .
.
.TP
.BI "pipe " command\-string
.TQ
.BI "pipe\-headers " command\-string
For incomming filters only.
.IP
These sources pipe the contents of the message (or just the message
headers) to the indicated command.
The match succeeds if the command returns 0 and fails otherwise.
.
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH ACTIONS
.
Most actions are either a single word, or a word followed by an equal
sign (=) and a parameter.
The
.B tag
action is an exception to this rule and takes a variable number of
arguments.
.PP
Many actions also have aliases.
The action and its aliases have exactly the same meaning, and the choice
of which to use is arbitrary.
.
.SS Incoming Filter Actions
.
.TP
.BR bounce [ =\fItemplate\fP ]
.TQ
.BR reject [ =\fItemplate\fP ]
Send back a delivery failure notification, optionally specifying the
message template to use.
.I template
may be an absolute path or a relative path.
If it begins with `\(ti', it will be expanded to the user's home
directory.
A relative path is relative to
.BR TEMPLATE_DIR .
.
.TP
.B drop
.TQ
.B exit
.TQ
.B stop
Silently discard the message.
.
.TP
.BR ok [ =\fIinstruction\fP ]
.TQ
.BR accept [ =\fIinstruction\fP ]
.TQ
.BR deliver [ =\fIinstruction\fP ]
Deliver the message, optionally specifying the delivery instruction.
.I instruction
can have several forms:
.TS
allbox, tab(;);
l l.
T{
.BI deliver=| "program \fR[\fPargument .\|.\|.\fR]"
T};Pipe message to a program.
T{
.BI deliver=& address
T};T{
Forward message.
The `&' is optional if the address begins with a letter or a number.
T}
T{
.BI deliver=: path
T};Deliver to mmdf mailbox.
T{
.BI deliver= path
T};T{
Deliver to mbox mailbox.
Must begin with `\(ti' or `/' and must not end with `/'.
T}
T{
.BI deliver= path /
T};T{
Deliver to maildir mailbox.
Must begin with `\(ti' or `/' and must end with `/'.
T}
.TE
.IP
TMDA will not create mailboxes if they don't exist, and will not deliver
to a symlinked mailbox.
Please note that delivering to mmdf and mbox mailboxes on an NFS
filesystem is not safe.
.
.TP
.BR confirm [ =\fItemplate\fP ]
Send a confirmation request, optionally specifying the template to use.
.
.TP
.B hold
Save the message in the pending queue.
.
.SS Outgoing Filter Actions
.
.TP
.BR bare [ =append ]
Don't tag the outgoing message.
If
.B =append
is included, append the recipient to the file specified by
.B BARE_APPEND
or executed the SQL statement in
.B DB_BARE_APPEND
to add the recipient to the database.
.
.TP
.BR sender [ =\fIaddress\fP ]
Tag the message with a sender address.
The address to use can be given explicitly.
The recipient's address is used by default.
.
.TP
.BR domain [ =\fIaddress\fP ]
Like
.BR sender ,
but only use the domain part of the address.
.
.TP
.BR dated [ =\fItimeout\fP ]
Tag the message with a dated address.
You may optionally specify a timeout to use instead of the default.
The format for timeout is a number followed by a single letter that
provides the time unit.
Valid time units are:
.TS
tab(;);
lB l.
Y;years
M;months
w;weeks
d;days
h;hours
m;minutes
s;seconds
.TE
.
.TP
.BI exp= full\-address
.TQ
.BI explicit= full\-address
.TQ
.BI as= full\-adress
Use a specific sender address.
.
.TP
.BI ext= address\-extension
.TQ
.BI extension= address\-extension
Use a specific sender address extension.
.
.TP
.BI kw= keyword
.TQ
.BI keyword= keyword
Tag the message with a keyword address.
.
.TP
.B default
Use the action given by the
.B ACTION_OUTGOING
option.
.
.TP
.BI tag " header action \fR[\fPheader action .\|.\|.\fR]"
Allows you to specify a sequence of
.I header action
pairs to apply actions to specific headers.
.I header
is the name of the header you want to apply the action to, usually
.B From
or
.B Reply\-To
(leave off the `:').
It may also be
.B envelope
to apply the action to the envelope sender.
.IP
.I action
can be any of the actions from
.B Outgoing Filter Actions
(except
.BR tag ).
.
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH SEE ALSO
.
.BR tmda\-filter (1),
.BR tmda\-config (5),
.UR http://tmda.sourceforge.net/cgi\-bin/moin.cgi/FilterSpecification
The TMDA wiki
.UE .
.
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH AUTHOR
.
TMDA was written by
.MT jason@mastaler.com
Jason R. Mastaler
.ME .
.PP
This manual page is based on documentation from the TMDA wiki and was
written by
.MT kevin\-opensource@omegacrash.net
Kevin Goodsell
.ME ,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
