.\" Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH TMDA-INJECT 1 "2010-01-24" TMDA "TMDA Programs"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH NAME
tmda\-inject \- tag and send outgoing messages
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY tmda\-inject
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ "recip .\|.\|." ]
.YS
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tag and send outgoing messages from a MUA.
If one or more recipients are provided, send the message to all
.I recip
arguments.
If none are provided, send the message to all header recipient addresses.
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-c " file
.TQ
.BI \-\-config\-file= file
Specify a configuration file other than
.BR \(ti/.tmda/config .
.TP
.BI "\-O " file
.TQ
.BI \-\-filter\-outgoing\-file= file
Full pathname to your outgoing filter file.
Overrides FILTER_OUTGOING in
.BR \(ti/.tmda/config .
.TP
.BI "\-f " sender
This option is silently ignored currently.
.TP
.B \-q
.TQ
.B \-\-qfilter
Return 99 to qfilter so it will not run qmail\-queue itself.
A qmail only option.
.TP
.BI \-M " recip sender"
.TQ
.BI \-\-filter\-match= "recip sender"
Check whether the given e-mail address matches a line in your outgoing
filter and then exit.
The first address given should be the message recipient, and the second
is the sender (you).
This option will also check for parsing errors in the filter file.
.TP
.B \-V
Show full TMDA version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show program's version number and exit.
.TP
.B \-h
.TQ
.B \-\-help
Show this help message and exit.
.\" **********************************************************************
.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH AUTHOR
TMDA was written by
.MT jason@mastaler.com
Jason R. Mastaler
.ME .
.PP
This manual page was adapted from the program
.B \%\-\-help
output by
.MT kevin\-opensource@omegacrash.net
Kevin Goodsell
.ME ,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
