.\" Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH TMDA-PENDING 1 "2010-01-24" TMDA "TMDA Programs"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH NAME
tmda\-pending \- pending queue manipulation tool
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY tmda\-pending
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ "messages .\|.\|." " | \fB\-\fP]"
.YS
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tmda\-pending
is a tool for manipulating TMDA's pending messages queue.
If one or more
.I messages
are provided as arguments, operate just on them.
If `\-' is specified, operate on a list of messages provided by standard
input.
Otherwise, operate on all messages in the pending queue.
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show program's version number and exit.
.TP
.B \-h
.TQ
.B \-\-help
Show this help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-V
Show full TMDA version information and exit.
.SS General
.TP
.BI \-\-vhome\-script= script
Full pathname of SCRIPT that prints a virtual email user's home directory
on standard output.
.B \%tmda\-pending
will read that path and set $HOME to that path so that `\(ti' expansion
works properly for virtual users.
The script takes two arguments, the user name and the domain, on its
command line.
This option is for use with the VPopMail and VMailMgr add-ons to qmail
and with other systems that manage virtual email addresses.
The user name is obtained from the USER and LOGNAME environment
variables, in that order, or by the value of the
.B \%\-\-vhome\-user
option, if defined.
The domain name is obtained by the
.B \%\-\-vhome\-domain
option, if defined, and if not, an attempt to figure it out automatically.
.TP
.BI \-\-vhome\-user= user
The user name to optionally pass to the program specified in the
.B \%\-\-vhome\-script
option, above.
.TP
.BI \-\-vhome\-domain= domain
The domain name to optionally pass to the program specified in the
.B \%\-\-vhome\-script
option, above.
.TP
.BI "\-c " file
.TQ
.BI \-\-config\-file= file
Specify a configuration file other than
.BR \(ti/.tmda/config .
.TP
.B \-v
.TQ
.B \-\-verbose
Display output (default).
.TP
.B \-q
.TQ
.B \-\-quiet
Suppress output.
Not compatible with
.BR \%\-\-interactive .
.TP
.B \-p
.TQ
.B \-\-pretend
Don't actually operate on messages, just show what would have happened.
Implies
.BR \%\-\-verbose .
.TP
.B \-i
.TQ
.B \-\-interactive
Display a summary of each pending message and prompt for disposal (pass,
show, release, delete, quit).
Implies
.BR \%\-\-verbose .
(default)
.TP
.B \-b
.TQ
.B \-\-batch
Operate non-interactively in batch mode.
Use with caution.
.TP
.B \-C
.TQ
.B \-\-cache
Operate only on messages which aren't stored in
.B \(ti/.tmda/.pendingcache
(i.e, haven't yet been read).
After operation,  store the message in the cache file.
Useful primarily in conjunction  with the
.B \%\-\-summary
option.
.SS Actions
.TP
.B \-r
.TQ
.B \-\-release
Release messages.
.TP
.BI "\-R " address
.TQ
.BI \-\-recipient= address
Override the email address used to create the magic release address by
specifying
.IR address .
Normally, this is determined by parsing the
.B \%X\-TMDA\-Recipient
header which every pending message contains.
.TP
.B \-d
.TQ
.B \-\-delete
Delete messages.
.TP
.B \-B
.TQ
.B \-\-blacklist
Append the sender of the message to the
.B \%PENDING_BLACKLIST_APPEND
file.
.TP
.B \-W
.TQ
.B \-\-whitelist
Append the sender of the message to the
.B \%PENDING_WHITELIST_APPEND
file.
.TP
.B \-S
.TQ
.B \-\-show
Display the full contents of the given message with
.B \%$PAGER
(usually the
.B \%more
or
.B \%less
program).
.TP
.B \-s
.TQ
.B \-\-summary
Print a summary of pending messages along with a release address link.
Implies
.BR \%\-\-verbose .
.TP
.B \-T
.TQ
.B \-\-terse\-summary
Print a terse (one-line per message) summary of pending messages.
Customize the display with
.BR \%TERSE_SUMMARY_HEADERS .
Implies
.BR \-\-verbose .
.SS Messages
.TP
.B \-A
.TQ
.B \-\-ascending
Operate on messages in ascending order (default).
.TP
.B \-D
.TQ
.B \-\-descending
Operate on messages in descending order.
.TP
.BI "\-Y " interval
.TQ
.BI \-\-younger= interval
Operate only on messages younger than the time
.I interval
given in seconds (s), minutes (m), hours (h), days (d), weeks (w), months
(M), or years (Y).
.TP
.BI "\-O " interval
.TQ
.BI \-\-older= interval
Operate only on messages older than the time
.I interval
given in seconds (s), minutes (m), hours (h), days (d), weeks (w), months
(M), or years (Y).
.\" **********************************************************************
.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH AUTHOR
TMDA was written by
.MT jason@mastaler.com
Jason R. Mastaler
.ME .
.PP
This manual page was adapted from the program
.B \%\-\-help
output by
.MT kevin\-opensource@omegacrash.net
Kevin Goodsell
.ME ,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
