.\" Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" Include www macros (see groff_www(7))
.mso www.tmac
.
.TH TMDA-SENDMAIL 1 "2009-03-27" TMDA "TMDA Programs"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH NAME
tmda-sendmail \- sendmail compatibility wrapper
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tmda-sendmail
.RB [ -h
|
.BR --help ]
.RB [ -V ]
.RB [ --version ]
.I sendmail_options
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tmda-sendmail
is a wrapper for
.B tmda-inject
that accepts
.B sendmail
arguments, most of which it ignores.
This is for compatibility with mail transfer agents that support sending
via a
.B sendmail
program.
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -B, -E, -e, -f, -i, -J, -m, -o, -p, -v, -x
These options are silently ignored.
.TP
.B -t
Get recipients from the message headers rather than command line arguments.
.TP
.BI -F\  name
Set the sender name.
.TP
.B -V
Show full TMDA version information and exit.
.TP
.B --version
Show program's version number and exit.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show help message and exit.
.\" **********************************************************************
.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\" **********************************************************************
.SH AUTHOR
TMDA was written by
.MTO jason@mastaler.com "Jason R. Mastaler" .
.PP
This manual page was written by
.MTO kevin-opensource@omegacrash.net "Kevin Goodsell" ,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
